# WerbelbPersonalProject

## Journels

### 12/22/2020

> Today was my first day of actual coding, and I got quite a bit done. After a couple of days trying to find a free API I could use to get data from the stock market, I finally found "finnhub.io" at the end of yesterday, and was able to start experimenting with it today. Using this data, I was able to create a simulation of the SPDR S&P 500 Trust ETF (SPY), an ETF tracking the S&P 500. In my simulation, I can start with a certain amount of total money (I've been using $500), of which I can invest a certain amount in the ETF. The simulation updates every second, at which time it finds the current price of a single stock in the ETF and uses that to calculate the total amount of money I have right now as well as my total gains from the start of the simulation. I then made invest and divest methods I can use to put in or take money from the ETF, which changes the amount of risk and reward possible. One part of this simulation I am especially proud of is my "savedInfo.json" file, which allows me to stop and start the simulation and not lose any progress. Hopefully during my next session, I will be able to start programming the ML necessary to determine the best times to invest and divest.

### 12/23/2020
> I spent most of this session with historical data, as opposed to yesterday when I was working with realtime data. I first set up a way to get historical data, still with finnhub.io, using Stock Candles, which I will be able to use as data when training my ML model. I then realized that I could also use this data in my simulation instead of current data, which is especially helpful when the market is closed and I am not getting any realtime data. To do this, I set up a python dictionary with timestamps and stock closes one minute apart from each other. I then made a different "simCurrentPrice" method in the simulator that iterates over that dictionary and substitutes the closes for realtime prices. In the constructor for the class, I put a boolean variable that is used throughout to figure out whether to use the realtime price or the historical prices.
> 
> I did make a couple other small changes that I might as well point out. First, I moved a lot of the code from the python script to the constructor of the Simulator class, just to clean up the script. Second, I added the savedInfo.json to the gitignore because it will probably change very often and does not need to be kept in my Github Repository. Third, I added a "delta gain" to what is printed in the simulator update method, which tells how much money was gained or lost since the previous update. One final thing to touch on is that I did get a very basic start on creating my ML model, but as it is not even close to starting to work, I will wait to commit that until it's ready.
